# Research Notes

## Stella 3/7/2019

“Each single-tissue cancer type can be further divided into three to
four molecular subtypes.  The subclassification is based on recurrent
genetic and epigenetic alterations that converge on common
pathways. Meaningful differences in clinical behavior are often
correlated with the single-tissue tumor types and, in a few cases,
single-tissue subtype identification has led to therapies that target
the driving subtype-specific molecular alterations.”
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0092867414008769>
So accurate identification of single tissue subtypes is important for
the treatment of subtype-specific molecules. We can study this in our
project.

“We began with class prediction: How could one use an initial
collection of samples belonging to known classes (such as AML and ALL)
to create a “class predictor” to classify new, unknown samples?”
(Golub, 1999) Like this, we could study with class prediction: How
could one use an initial collection of samples belonging to known
classes (for example CML and CLL) to create a “class predictor” to
classify new, unknown samples?.

In addition, in his article they solved three problems: “The first
issue was to explore whether there were genes whose expression pattern
was strongly correlated with the class distinction to be
predicted. The second issue was how to use a collection of known
samples to create a “class predictor” capable of assigning a new
sample to one of two classes. The third issue was how to test the
validity of class predictors.”(golub, 1999)

Due to their problems, we can model our questions, such as: "The first
question is whether there is a pattern of gene expression associated
with the different types of chronic leukemia to be predicted. The
second problem is how to create a "class predictor" from the data of a
given sample that randomly assigns new samples to one of the
classes. The third question is how to test the validity of the class
predictor with data. What is the probability?“

“The methodology of class prediction can be applied to any measurable
distinction among tumors.” (golub, 1999) So, we could also follow
these class prediction and class discovery in our project.

“Class discovery methods could also be used to search for fundamental
mechanisms that cut across distinct types of cancers. For example, one
might combine different cancers (for example, breast tumors and
prostate tumors) into a single data set, eliminate those genes that
correlate strongly with tissue type, and then cluster the samples
based on the remaining genes.” (golub, 1999) Or we could study the
activating mutation of different types of cancer (such as CML and
AML). <http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/106/10/3377/tab-figures-only>
